Provide more information for supervisors (#608)
srobo/docs: robots_101/programme_structure.md

---
layout: page
title: Robots 101 - Programme Structure
---

# Robots 101 - Programme Structure

Student Robotics is an annual robotics competition for people aged 16-19.
But what actually happens during the course of the competition year?

## Registration

> Registration for the competition usually opens in late summer. Teams usually

Reviewer: We try not to do things during summer holiday for teams
```suggestion
Registration for the competition usually opens in early September. Teams usually
```

Author: Hrm, I had actually thought we'd opened it earlier than this quite a few times but I can't find many examples. We do unfortunately end up opening in October quite a bit looking at the team-emails, though as we don't want to be doing that probably best not to advertise that.

---
layout: page
title: Robots 101 - Programme Structure
---

# Robots 101 - Programme Structure

Student Robotics is an annual robotics competition for people aged 16-19.
But what actually happens during the course of the competition year?

## Registration

> Registration for the competition usually open in late summer. Teams usually

Reviewer 2: Registration usually _opens_.

guide the team and help them with any technical questions. Where possible the
mentor will join the team's meetings in person, though we also offer remote
mentors if that is not possible.

All teams also have access to our [Discord][discord] server where they can chat
with all our volunteers (as well as other teams) at any time.

## Your time

Most teams work on their robot for at least two hours a week, with some teams
spending four hours or more. How this time is scheduled varies between teams --
some have more than one meeting a week, others have less frequent but longer
sessions.

To get the most out of the time, ensure sessions are long enough to make useful
progress after allowing for setting up beforehand and tidying away afterwards.

## Tech Days

Throughout the year [Tech Days][tech-days] provide opportunities to spend a
whole day (usually a Saturday) working on your robot, with lots of help
available. They’re also an opportunity to see how other teams are doing or get
more direct help with your robot.

We provide a space for you to work in, with power and internet access, as well
as volunteers able to help with the kits and hands-on guidance with your robot.

> ## Competition

Reviewer 2: There's no mention of the virtual competition here - should there be? :)

Reviewer 2: + friendlies.

Author: There's also no mention of the Challenges either. I deliberately didn't mention them -- they felt "small" enough not to worry about as well as being a bit more tied to the specifics of the content of the year rather than the structure. The Virtual Competition perhaps is different though :thinking: I don't think the friendlies are though (plus we don't always run them).

Reviewer 2: Agreed with the challenges and friendlies - may be worth mentioning the virtual comp.

Author: 30a041a
